# Project-Group-5
The first section of the code deals with importing the dataset and all necessary libraries. These include those used for mathematical calculations, data cleaning, data visualization, and implementing the predictive model. 

Once the data has been imported, it is sanitized and enriched in the second section of the code. Irrelevant columns and employees that were fired are removed from the data set. Employee age is found using the DOB column and given its own column. The time the employee has been at the company is calculated and given its own column. The DOB, DateofHire, and DateofTermination columns are dropped. The CitizenDesc, Performance Score, Race, and Employment Status columns are all changed from string to discrete integer values. Finally, the data set is split into two: active employees and employees who quit.

The third section of the code handles the data exploration and visualization. Descriptive statistics and a correlation heat map are found for both data sets. Bar graphs showcasing the RaceDesc, Sex, MaritalDesc, PerformanceScore, and EmpSatisfaction columns are also created for both sets of data. Scatter plots are created for nondiscrete factors (Salary, Absences, Age, LengthofEmploment, EngagementSurvey). Finally, a bar graph is created to explore the top reasons why employees quit.

The final section of the code contains the classification model and evaluation. The data (the entire set) is split into X (all columns except EmpStatus_Int) and Y (only EmpStatus_Int), which are then split into train and test sets. The data is assigned a test size of 0.2 and a randsom state of 42. A check to make sure data types match is conducted and those that are not int64 are changed. A K-nearest neighbor classification model is used with k=4. Mean squared error, root mean squared error, score for number of neighbors = 4, a confusion matrix, and an accuracy score are used to evaluate the effectiveness of the model.
